>> Brian Holt: We actually are going to
get a little bit into how to performance
profile.
I'm just going to teach you a little
bit about explain which is useful.
All right, so select star from track,
where
>> Brian Holt: Name
equals Black Dog, which is a.
>> Brian Holt: Let's Zepton Sol.
>> Brian Holt: Looks like
we got two versions of it.
That's cool.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, well,
let's just do an explain here first.
So, exact same query.
The only thing I want you to do now is,
I just want you to put explain
on the front of it and
you'll get something that looks like this.
>> Brian Holt: If you're looking at that
and saying like, I don't get it, me too.
I don't really understand
what this is saying.
Every time I look at a SQLites output
of explain, it's really hard for
me to make heads or tails of what it is.
And I started digging into this
because I thought I was maybe I'll
explain it to them.
And I was getting so
far into what the opcodes are and
what you need to be concerned about.
And I was like, yeah, no, this is like
a whole course worth of material here.
And frankly,
it's stuff that I don't look at,
so I'm not going to really
explain it too much to you.
What I am going to show you is
the one that I do find useful.
And they all databases have
their own version of this.
The one in Postgres is explain,
analyze, which does not work.
But the one that exists in
SQLite is EXPLAIN QUERYPLAN.
And the big bad word to look for is scan.
Scan means I'm going to look at everything
in this table to figure out if
it's called Black Dog or not.
So, if you remember correctly,
in track we have 3500 rows.
So in order to find two tracks,
I had to look at 3500 of them.
I'm gonna go ahead and
say that's probably okay.
Because, again, SQLite is really fast.
Especially in 3500 rows.
Now, if you're on a million rows and
it's gonna happen a lot,
yeah, by all means, worry about it.
>> Brian Holt: But high volume and
frequent those are kind of tip of
your like, okay this is too slow.
Even then,
I saw this while I was doing my research.
We're gonna talk about indexes and
how to index a column.
Indexes are like medicine, that if
you don't need it, you don't need it.
And if you do need it, a little bit helps.
And then, too much of it is
almost always a bad thing.
So, be judicious about
where you index things.
We looked at query plan.
Something that can be helpful is, and
I'll do this from time to time
when I'm working in SQLite,
you can do .eqp on,
explain query plan Plan.
So you don't have to put
this every single time.
It's now just going to start
telling you every single time.
>> Brian Holt: So
you get a scan track right there.
Kind of helpful, especially if you're
writing a lot of queries here and
you're trying to figure stuff out.